DOCSP-42325: Bulk Write (#68)
mongodb/docs-scala: source/write/bulk-write.txt

- ``DeleteOneModel``
- ``DeleteManyModel``

Then, pass a list of these instances to the ``bulkWrite()`` method.

The following sections show how to create and use instances of the
preceding classes. The :ref:`scala-bulkwrite-method` section
demonstrates how to pass a list of models to the ``bulkWrite()`` method
to perform the bulk operation.

Insert Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To perform an insert operation, create an ``InsertOneModel`` instance and specify
the document you want to insert.

The following example creates an instance of ``InsertOneModel``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-insert-one
   :end-before: end-bulk-insert-one
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

To insert multiple documents, create an instance of ``InsertOneModel``
for each document.

.. important::

   When performing a bulk operation, the ``InsertOneModel`` cannot
   insert a document with an ``_id`` that already exists in the
   collection. In this situation, the driver throws a
   ``MongoBulkWriteException``.

Update Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To update a document, create an instance of ``UpdateOneModel`` and pass
the following arguments:

> - A **query filter** that specifies the criteria used to match documents in your collection
> - The update operation you want to perform. For more information about update

Reviewer: S: Remove the articles at the beginning of each  [list item](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/lists/#list-items); also, since the second bullet point has periods I'd add one to the first:

```suggestion
- **Query filter** that specifies the criteria used to match documents in your collection.
- Update operation you want to perform. For more information about update
```

  operations, see the :manual:`Field Update Operators
  </reference/operator/update-field/>` guide in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

An ``UpdateOneModel`` instance specifies an update for *the first*
document that matches your query filter.

The following example creates an instance of ``UpdateOneModel``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-update-one
   :end-before: end-bulk-update-one
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

To update multiple documents, create an instance of ``UpdateManyModel`` and pass
the same arguments as for ``UpdateOneModel``. The ``UpdateManyModel``
class specifies updates for *all* documents that match your query
filter.

The following example creates an instance of ``UpdateManyModel``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-update-many
   :end-before: end-bulk-update-many
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

Replace Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A replace operation removes all fields and values of a specified document and
replaces them with new fields and values that you specify. To perform a

> replace operation, create an instance of ``ReplaceOneModel`` and pass a
> query filter and the fields and values you want to replace the matching
> document with.

Reviewer: S: not necessary, but you can list the arguments here like you did with the update section:
```suggestion
replace operation, create an instance of ``ReplaceOneModel`` and pass the following arguments:

- Query filter ...
- Replacement document ...
```

   :end-before: end-bulk-delete-one
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

To delete multiple documents, create an instance of ``DeleteManyModel`` and pass a
query filter specifying the document you want to delete. An instance of
``DeleteManyModel`` provides instructions to remove *all* documents that
match your query filter.

The following example creates an instance of ``DeleteManyModel``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-delete-many
   :end-before: end-bulk-delete-many
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. _scala-bulkwrite-method:

Perform the Bulk Operation
--------------------------

After you define a model instance for each operation you want to perform,
pass a list of these instances to the ``bulkWrite()`` method.
By default, the method runs the operations in the order
specified by the list of models.

The following example performs multiple write operations by using the
``bulkWrite()`` method:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
      :start-after: start-bulk-write-mixed
      :end-before: end-bulk-write-mixed
      :language: scala
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      

>       Success: AcknowledgedBulkWriteResult{insertedCount=1, matchedCount=1, removedCount=1, modifiedCount=1, upserts=[], inserts=[BulkWriteInsert{index=0, id=BsonObjectId{value=...}}]}

Reviewer: S: you can add some newlines here to reduce scroll
```suggestion
      Success: AcknowledgedBulkWriteResult{insertedCount=1, matchedCount=1, 
      removedCount=1, modifiedCount=1, upserts=[], inserts=
      [BulkWriteInsert{index=0, id=BsonObjectId{value=...}}]}
```

      Completed

If any of the write operations fail, the {+driver-short+} raises a
``BulkWriteError`` and does not perform any further operations.
``BulkWriteError`` provides a ``details`` item that includes the

> operation that failed, and details about the exception.

Reviewer: S: remove the comma before the dependent clause
```suggestion
operation that failed and details about the exception.
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``ordered()``
     - | If ``true``, the driver performs the write operations in the order
         provided. If an error occurs, the remaining operations are not
         attempted. 
       |
       | If ``false``, the driver performs the operations in an
         arbitrary order and attempts to perform all operations.
       | Defaults to ``true``.

   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation()``
     - | Specifies whether the update operation bypasses document validation. This lets you 
         update documents that don't meet the schema validation requirements, if any 
         exist. For more information about schema validation, see :manual:`Schema
         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB
         Server manual.
       | Defaults to ``false``.

   * - ``comment()``
     - | Sets a comment to attach to the operation.

   * - ``let()``
     - | Provides a map of parameter names and values to set top-level
         variables for the operation. Values must be constant or closed
         expressions that don't reference document fields.

> The following code creates options and uses the ``ordered(false)`` option to

Reviewer: S: I think this wording makes slightly more sense, since `ordered(false)` isn't the option:
```suggestion
The following code creates options and sets the ``ordered`` option to ``false`` to
```

specify an unordered bulk write. Then, the example uses the
``bulkWrite()`` method to perform a bulk operation:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-write-unordered
   :end-before: end-bulk-write-unordered
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

If any of the write operations in an unordered bulk write fail, the {+driver-short+}
reports the errors only after attempting all operations.

.. note::

   Unordered bulk operations do not guarantee an order of execution. The
   order can differ from the way you list them to optimize the runtime.

Return Value
------------

> The ``bulkWrite()`` method returns a ``SingleObservable`` object. You can subscribe to
> this observable to access information from a ``BulkWriteResult`` instance by using the

Reviewer: S: this wording is a little confusing, since it's unclear if the method returns a SingleObservable or a BulkWriteResult. From the API docs, it looks like it returns a SingleObservable that contains a BulkWriteResult. Maybe reword to: 

```suggestion
The ``bulkWrite()`` method returns a ``SingleObservable`` object that contains a ``BulkWriteResult``. You can access information from the ``BulkWriteResult`` instance by subscribing to the observable and using the
```

following methods:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``wasAcknowledged()``
     - | Indicates if the server acknowledged the write operation.
         
   * - ``getDeletedCount()``
     - | The number of documents deleted, if any.

   * - ``getInsertedCount()``
     - | The number of documents inserted, if any.

   * - ``getInserts()``
     - | The list of inserted documents, if any.

   * - ``getMatchedCount()``
     - | The number of documents matched for an update, if applicable.

   * - ``getModifiedCount()``
     - | The number of documents modified, if any.

   * - ``getUpserts()``
     - | The list of upserted documents, if any.

Additional Information
----------------------

To learn how to perform individual write operations, see the following guides:

- :ref:`scala-write-insert`
- :ref:`scala-write-update`
- :ref:`scala-write-delete`

> - :ref:`scala-write-replace`

Author: Broken links that should be resolved when all the pages are merged

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this

> guide, see the following API Documentation:

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
guide, see the following API documentation:
```

The following example creates an instance of ``DeleteOneModel``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-delete-one
   :end-before: end-bulk-delete-one
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

To delete multiple documents, create an instance of ``DeleteManyModel`` and pass a
query filter specifying the document you want to delete. An instance of
``DeleteManyModel`` provides instructions to remove *all* documents that
match your query filter.

The following example creates an instance of ``DeleteManyModel``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
   :start-after: start-bulk-delete-many
   :end-before: end-bulk-delete-many
   :language: scala
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. _scala-bulkwrite-method:

Perform the Bulk Operation
--------------------------

After you define a model instance for each operation you want to perform,
pass a list of these instances to the ``bulkWrite()`` method.
By default, the method runs the operations in the order
specified by the list of models.

The following example performs multiple write operations by using the
``bulkWrite()`` method:

> .. io-code-block::
> 

Reviewer: S: make this example copyable:
```suggestion
.. io-code-block::
  :copyable:
```

   .. input:: /includes/write/bulk-write.scala
      :start-after: start-bulk-write-mixed
      :end-before: end-bulk-write-mixed
      :language: scala
      :dedent:

   .. output::

>       

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
        :visible: false
```

      Success: AcknowledgedBulkWriteResult{insertedCount=1, matchedCount=1, removedCount=1,
      modifiedCount=1, upserts=[], inserts=[BulkWriteInsert{index=0, id=BsonObjectId{value=...}}]}
      Completed

If any of the write operations fail, the {+driver-short+} raises a
``BulkWriteError`` and does not perform any further operations.
``BulkWriteError`` provides a ``details`` item that includes the
operation that failed and details about the exception.

.. note::

   When the driver runs a bulk operation, it uses the write concern of the
   target collection. The driver reports all write concern errors after
   attempting all operations, regardless of execution order.

Customize Bulk Write Operation
------------------------------

> The ``bulkWrite()`` method optionally accepts a parameter which

Reviewer: S: you can introduce BulkWriteOptions here, since you mention it in the next paragraph
```suggestion
The ``bulkWrite()`` method optionally accepts a ``BulkWriteOptions`` parameter, which
```
